thank you so much it is truly an honor
and a privilege to be here I when I
think of passion city I think of that
passage where Jesus is delivering the
Sermon on the Mount and he talked about
a city on a hill
and that's how I picture passion city a
city on a hill that shines this message
of God's grace and hope all over the
planet and so I come here with awe and
wonder at what God is doing through this
great church so thank you for being here
I'm privileged to be here my wife Leslie
is with me as well and I'll I gotta be
honest and say after what happened to me
in the Little Rock Arkansas I'm glad to
be anywhere because I was in Little Rock
to speak at a charity event and this
pastor picks me up from the airport and
we're driving to the event and we're
chatting along the way and he says yeah
he says I I told the young woman in our
church I said Lee Strobel is gonna speak
tonight she said oh the guy who wrote
the case for Christ is he still living
I'm glad to be anywhere after that I'm
glad to be breathing after that but
Leslie and I recently moved to Houston
Texas any former Texans here yeah a few
yeah yeah those smart ones came this way
but we got our phone number assigned to
us by the telephone company when we
moved into our house and you may think
yeah big deal was a big deal of us
because no kidding when we lived in
Chicago the phone number they gave us
was one digit away from the cab company
seriously so 2:00 in the morning a
Saturday nights these drunk guys and
buyers would call for a cab they'd miss
dial our phone would ring it was bad
enough to get waken up in the middle of
the night but then you had to get up get
dressed get in the car
it was such a hassle so I think we got a
good number this time I'm hoping so less
than I get the opportunity these days to
travel around the country around the
world and and talk people about Jesus
and I'm getting better than that whether
it's to one person or a bunch of people
doesn't matter
but I will say there are some times when
I get into a conversation about Jesus
and it does not go well I had the most
embarrassing thing happened I was down
south speaking at a conference with my
buddy mark and the next day we had to
fly home so I did get some breakfast and
we saw in these Cracker Barrel
restaurant you've seen these right I've
never been to one he said well let's
give it a try so we noticed say I'm
rocking chairs on the front porch where
people sit and people-watch while
they're you know waiting for a table or
whatever so in order for us to get to
the front door we had to walk in front
of two people in rocking chairs first
one was a young woman about 18 years old
dark hair dark eyes young man sitting
next to about the same age so we got to
walk in front them to get the door it's
not a big deal right so we're walking
along and just as I step in front of
this young woman I hear her say what's a
deist and I thought I just wrote a book
about that so I turned on my heel look
the nasty young lady Adeus to someone
who believes that God created the
universe and then he walked away a deus
is someone who believes that God sort of
wound up the universe like a giant clock
and he's just letting a tick down I said
a Deus to someone who believes I got his
distant indistinct comment for humankind
so I give these statistics all this the
data I start to talk about the evidence
of cosmology and physics and
biochemistry and genetics I'm just
laying this stuff on her and she's
looking at me and her eyes are getting
bigger and I'm on a roll now you can't
stop me
I'm about Jesus era in human history the
incarnations his miracles his death I
started to give her the evidence that
Jesus rose from the dead and she stared
at me and her eyes are getting bigger
bigger I turned to my friend I said
could you believe this happened to walk
in front of her she said what's a deist
my friend said Lee she said buenas Dias
I really wish that were a joke that's
what happened
oops it was she was freaking out by the
way oh I'll give her that but that was
so embarrassing oh you know what the
good news was the ice was already broken
how do you not get into a spiritual
conversation it's a boy right and turned
out that she was there with her
boyfriend for the state track meet and
they Brooke brought us back to the hotel
room where the coach was and all the
athletes and we have to talk about Jesus
for about 45 minutes so it turned out
all right
man that was embarrassing that was that
was embarrassing so when I got this kind
invitation to be with you today I
thought well what could I talk about
that it's not going to embarrass me and
I thought you know what I'm just gonna
do something simple I'm just gonna tell
you a story it's true story it's my
story it's a story that begins in
atheism because I decided at a rather
young age that God does not and cannot
exist yeah I thought that God didn't
create people but people created God why
because they're afraid of death so they
made up this idea of heaven and an
afterlife to make themselves feel better
about dying
that's what I thought and I just thought
the mere concept of an all-loving
all-knowing all-powerful creator of the
universe come on it's crazy
wasn't even worth my time to check out
now granted I'm a skeptical person sort
of in my DNA you know my backgrounds in
journalism in law commands you put those
two things together what kind of a jerk
the skeptic what kind of a skeptic they
said I was a legal editor of the Chicago
Tribune newspaper and we used to pride
ourselves on our skepticism you know he
wouldn't accept anybody's word at face
value you know he always wanted to try
to get two sources to confirm a fact
before he'd print it in the newspaper so
no kidding we had a sign in our newsroom
that said if your mother says she loves
you check it out
how do you know maybe she's lying got
any proof got anything to back that up
and that's okay that's alright you want
journalists to be skeptical don't you
sometimes don't you wish there were more
skeptical than they are but my problem
was that my skepticism bubbled over in
the cynicism and it cemented me into my
atheism now because I had no belief in
God I really lacked a moral framework
for my life I'm not saying all atheists
think this way I'm just saying your way
I looked at the world I tend to be
logical I tend to be rational so I said
okay if there is no God if there is no
heaven if there is no hell if there is
no judgment if there is no ultimate
accountability then the most logical way
for me to live my life would be as a
hedonist someone who just pursues
pleasure and that's what I did so I
lived a very immoral and drunken and
profane and narcissistic self-absorbed
really self-destructive in a lot of ways
that was my life what people saw was me
winning awards for Investigative
Reporting what they didn't see was the
other side which was me literally drunk
in the snow in an alley on Saturday
night I had so much rage inside of me so
much anger and if he asked me back then
what's the deal why why the anger I
couldn't have told you but looking back
it's clear what it was I was always
after the perfect tie you know I I was
always after the ultimate experience of
pleasure but guess what everything let
me down nothing lived up to the hype
there's a lot of rage I remember once
listen I got an argument and our
daughter was there and I had so much
rage I just blew up I remember I reared
back and I kicked a hole right through
our living room wall and my daughter's
crying and hell unless he's crying of
psych hey it was it was just another day
in the Strobel house
fact I'm gonna tell you the ugliest
thing about me which is in my little
daughter Alison was just a toddler if
she was alone in the living room playing
some blocks toys or whatever and she
would hear me come home from work
through the front door her natural
reaction was just to gather her toys and
go in a room and shut the door she's
gonna be drunk again so you can be
yelling and screaming and kicking holes
in walls at least it's nice and quiet in
here francette is the ugliest truth
about me
Leslie was agnostic she didn't know what
to think about God and if you've seen
the movie on our life which son Netflix
by the way so it's free you'll know what
happened it was through the relationship
that Leslie developed with a Christian
woman who was a nurse who shared the
gospel with her who brought her to
church and after many months of checking
things out Leslie came up to me and said
Lee I made a big decision in my life I
said what she said I've decided to
become a follower of Jesus Christ and I
thought oh no you know for an atheist
this is the worst news you can get who
knew what she was gonna turn into right
some Holy Roller or something I didn't
know all I knew was this wasn't part of
the deal
this isn't what I signed up for first
word that went through my mind divorce I
was gonna walk out but I stuck around
and and what a couple of things happen
on the positive side there were a lot of
changes in Leslie and her character and
the way she related to me and the kids
there were winsome and they were
attractive and and kind of pulled me
towards faith but at the same time I
wanted our old life back I wanted the
old Leslie back and so I thought what
can I do to get her out of this cult
that she's got involved in and I thought
well I got a good idea
I'll just disprove Christianity because
then I'll get her out of this cult and
we can go back to our life the way it
was and so I thought how do I do that
how do you just
through Christianity well actually I
thought this has got to be pretty easy I
think I can do it in a weekend and
here's maybe a three-day weekend yeah
okay but because I knew the key to
everything is the resurrection of Jesus
why because Jesus in a variety of
different ways directly and indirectly
made transcendent and messianic and
divine claims about himself he claimed
to be the Son of God at one point he
gets up before a group John 10 verse 30
and he says I and the father are one and
the word in Greek therefore one is not
masculinist neuter which means Jesus was
not saying I and the father are the same
person he was saying I and the father
are the same thing were one in nature
were one in essence and how did the
audience understand what he was saying
they picked up stones to kill him he
said well you you're just a man and
you're claiming to be God so Jesus
claimed to be the Son of God but so what
I could claim to be the Son of God you
could claim to be God anybody can claim
to be God but if Jesus claimed to be God
died and then three days later rose from
the dead that's pretty good evidence
he's telling the truth right that's why
the resurrection is the linchpin of the
Christian faith it's why the Apostle
Paul says in 1st Corinthians 15 verse 17
if Christ has not been raised your faith
is futile you're still in your sins what
was he saying he was saying look
Christianity is an investigative all
faith and if you investigate it you find
that the resurrection is not an actual
historical event you are fully justified
in walking away from the faith
that's how bold he was well I was a
reporter for the Chicago Tribune I've
seen plenty of dead bodies I've not seen
any of them come back to life and so I
thought I can easily disprove that Jesus
returned from the dead and so I want to
kind of talk about what I discovered
during what turned out to be a nearly
two-year investigation into the minutia
of the resurrection of Jesus into the
historical data and I'm going to
organize the data for the resurrection
using four words that begin with the
letter e that way it gives you a
framework
and the reason I might do this is a
couple of reasons some of you may be
like I was you know maybe a friend
brought you today you're not sure about
this Christianity stuff and and so for
you I hope these four es give you
something to think about about whether
or not this is based on fairytales and
make-believe wishful thinking or actual
historical truth and then for those of
us who are followers of Jesus you know
first Peter 3:15 says that we are always
been prepared to give an answer to
anyone who asks us to give the reason
for the hope that we have and to do it
gently and respectfully and so this will
give you a framework that you can always
remember if anybody asks you why should
I believe Christianity is true you could
say let me tell you about the four E's
so what are the four T's I want to
emphasize though when I did this
investigation I was a skeptic so I did
not give the New Testament any special
credence didn't consider to be an arrant
inspired the Word of God I do now but I
was a skeptic then but I had to accept
the New Testament for what it undeniably
is which is a set of ancient historical
writings and I knew just as you can
investigate any ancient writings whether
they're by swart own yasur Tacitus or
Josephus you can take those same
investigative techniques and apply them
to the historical record for the
resurrection to try to come to a verdict
is Christianity true and so that's what
I did for a year in nine months in my
investigation so what are the four es
that summarize the evidence for the
resurrection the first D stands for the
word execution that Jesus was dead after
being crucified and I learned very
quickly as I did my investigation there
is no dispute among scholars in the
field I'm not just talking about
Christian scholars I'm talking about the
wide range of scholarship around the
planet there is virtually no dispute
among ancient historians that Jesus was
dead after being crucified under Pontius
Pilate why because when we study ancient
history were lucky if we get one or or
maybe two sources to confirm a fact and
yet for the death of Jesus we not only
have Mo
early 1st century accounts in the
records that are contained in the New
Testament we've also got five ancient
sources outside the Bible confirming and
corroborating his death
we have Josephus the first century
Jewish historian to work for the Romans
Tacitus another early historian mayor
Bowser Appian Lucien
even the Jewish Talmud admits that Jesus
was executed I mean this is so well
established of an historical fact you
would get laughed out of a major
academic institution if you came in and
said no no I don't think Jesus was dead
in fact no less of an authority than the
peer-reviewed scientific medical journal
of the American Medical Association
conducted an investigation into the
evidence for the death of Jesus let me
quote to you their conclusion quote
clearly the weight of the historical and
medical evidence indicates that Jesus
was dead even before the wound to his
side was inflicted in fact we could go
to an atheist New Testament scholar like
GERD lunamon formerly of Vanderbilt
University and he'll tell you this quote
Jesus death as a consequence of
crucifixion is indisputable indisputable
now I don't know it's you're studying
sin history but there are very few facts
of ancient history that a skeptical
critical atheist historian like a GERD
lunamon will say is in disputable one of
them is a death of Jesus in the cross
the first he is for execution Jesus was
dead the second II I think is the most
fascinating stands for the word early we
have early accounts or early reports
that Jesus rose from the dead in other
words reports that come virtually
immediately after his death why is that
important because I call out of skeptics
I used to think that the resurrection of
Jesus was a legend and I knew it took
time for legend to develop in the
ancient world so I figured 50 a hundred
hundred and fifty two hundred years
after the life of Jesus legends began to
develop mythologies were spun stories
were invented and that's where this idea
of the resurrection
came from but what I learned decimates
the claim that the resurrection is
merely a legend follow me on this I
think this is fascinating we have
preserved for us a Creed of the earliest
Christians in other words right there in
the first century itself these
Christians would rally around this Creed
based on facts that they knew to be true
now this Creed contains the essence of
Christianity says Jesus died why for our
sins he was buried and the third day he
rose from the dead and then it mentions
the specific names of eyewitnesses and
groups of eyewitnesses to whom he
appeared appeared including opponents
and skeptics now what's important about
this Creed is how immediately it
developed after the death of Jesus
remember we said took time for legend to
develop well we can date this Creed how
because the Apostle Paul preserved it
for us he wrote a letter about 22 to 25
years after the death of Jesus he writes
a letter to the church in Corinth we
call it first Corinthians if you want to
look up the Creed later first
Corinthians 15 starting at verse 3 so he
writes this letter 22 to 25 years after
the death of Jesus and in the context of
how he writes it it suggests that he had
already given him this Creed on an
earlier visit and he was just repeating
it in the letter so we can date the
Creed passionately to within 20 years of
the death of Jesus now we could stop
there and that would be very impressive
historically speaking when you consider
the first two biographies of Alexander
the Great by Arian and Plutarch written
four hundred years after his life and
they're generally considered reliable so
20 years is pretty good but we can go
back earlier how because we know that
that Paul used to be Saul of Tarsus a
persecutor a hater of Christians one two
three years after the death of Jesus
he's on the road to Damascus boom he has
this encounter with the risen Christ he
becomes the Apostle Paul immediately he
goes into Damascus and he meets with
some apostles now many scholars say this
is when the
Tasos gave him this creed that he later
shared with the church in corinth other
scholars say wait a minute
it may have been three years later three
years later Paul goes to Jerusalem and
he meets for 15 days with two
eyewitnesses to the resurrection who are
named in the Creed Peter and James and
the Greek word that Paul uses in
Galatians to describe this 15 day
meeting history say suggests that this
was an investigative inquiry they're
checking each other out what did you
know what did you see what do you
experienced they're checking each other
out many scholars say this is when Paul
was given the Creed by two eyewitnesses
named in the Creed but either way this
means within 1 to 6 years after the
death of Jesus this Creed is already in
existence and therefore the beliefs that
make up this Creed go back even earlier
virtually to the cross itself so friends
the point is there is no huge time gap
between the death of Jesus and the later
development of a legend that he rose
from the dead
we got a news flash goes right back to
the beginning in fact one of the
greatest scholars in this area is James
DG Dunn and this is what he said about
this Creed he said quote this tradition
by that he means this Creed we can be
entirely confident was formulated as a
Creed as tradition within months of the
death of Jesus within months friends
this is historical gold the stories drew
over stuff like this and this is a news
flash from the beginning
in fact nowhere ever in history do we
ever see a legend developing that fast
and wiping out a solid core of
historical truth in fact one of the
greatest classical historians will ever
live and Sherwin white of Oxford he
actually studied the rate at which
legend developed in the ancient world
and he said the passage of two
generations of time is not even enough
for legend to grow up and wipe out a
solid core of historical truth we don't
have two generations of time pass in
here
we got a news flash goes right back to
the beginning and that's not the only
early report we've got we've got others
in Matthew Mark Luke John the book of
Acts
elsewhere in the epistle said that we're
all circulating during the lifetimes of
Jesus contemporaries who would have been
all too happy to point out the errors if
they were making this stuff up
France we got an execution Jesus was
dead we have reports of his resurrection
that are so early that you can't write
them off as being a legend but that's
not all we've got we've got a third wait
word that begins with the letter e it's
the word empty we have an empty tomb the
historical record tells us that Jesus
body was placed in the tomb belonging to
Joseph of Arimathea remember the Jewish
Council it was sealed
Matthew tells us it's guarded and yet
it's discovered empty that first Easter
morning now some critics believe as I
used to believe that wait a min I'll
tell you why the tomb is empty
the body was never really in it don't
you know they didn't bury crucifixion
victims they left him on the cross to be
eaten by birds or they threw him to the
dogs they didn't allow them to be buried
that's why the tomb was empty well wait
a minute I checked it out what did I
find I found that when you read the
digesta which is a summary of the Roman
law and procedure from the first century
it specifically says that crucifixion
victims execution victims can be buried
not only that we have in 1968 the
remains of a crucifixion victim who had
been buried that were discovered right
there some male from the first century
he was executed they found him with a
spike still through his ankle bone and
then just about two weeks ago they
announced the discovery of another
crucifixion victim who had been buried
so we have archaeological evidence that
yes some crucifixion victims at least
were buried and with good reason to
believe that's what happened with Jesus
so what happened to them how did the
tomb get empty you know how can we how
can we know that it really was empty on
that first Easter morning well we could
talk the rest of the day about all the
various strands of historical evidence
that established the empty to
but I'm just gonna give you one fat cuz
to me this this is conclusive and here
it is even the enemies of Jesus admitted
that it was empty how do we know
because when the disciples began
proclaiming that Jesus had risen what
the opponents of Jesus never said was
baloney go open the tomb you'll find the
body
that's all they needed to say it would
have put the onus on the disciples to
prove it but I didn't say that what did
they say we know from sources inside and
outside the New Testament that when the
disciples began proclaiming that Jesus
had risen what the opponent said was oh
well the disciples stole the body now
think about that what is that that's a
cover story
they're implicitly conceding the tomb is
empty they're just trying to explain how
it got empty see what I'm saying it's
like if you're a teacher and a student
comes up to you and says the dog ate my
homework that students admitting look I
don't have my homework but I could
explain what happened to it the dog ate
it
it's the same thing so either explicitly
or implicitly both the supporters and
the enemies of Jesus are saying the same
thing that the tomb of Jesus was empty I
don't think that's ever been the
question of history we're all conceding
that really the question of history is
how did it get empty that is the
question so you look at the usual list
of suspects aromas weren't about to
steal the body they wanted Jesus dead
the Jewish leaders of the day weren't
about to steal the body they wanted
Jesus to stay dead the disciples weren't
about to steal the body they didn't have
the motive they didn't have the means
they didn't have the opportunity I think
the best explanation for the tomb being
empty is that Jesus physically returned
from the dead especially when we combine
it with the fourth word that begins with
the letter E which is the word
eyewitnesses not only was Jesus tomb
discovered empty but over a period of
time Jesus appears alive in a dozen
different instances - more than five
hundred and fifteen people - skeptics
and doubters as well as the believers
two men two women daytime nighttime two
groups two individuals people talk to
them they they touch them they ate with
them and think of this ment remember we
said earlier we're lucky in ancient
history if we have one or two sources to
confirm a fact
we'll get this for the conviction of the
disciples that they encountered the
resurrected Jesus we have no fewer than
nine ancient sources inside and outside
the New Testament confirming and
corroborating the conviction of the
disciples that they encountered the
resurrected Jesus friends that is an
avalanche of historical data and of
course the historical record tells us
this experience revolutionized the lives
of the disciples
I mean after Jesus is put to death
they're afraid they're gonna get
executed they go into hiding they're
gonna go back to the fishing business
and yet history undeniably tells us just
a few weeks later in the very same city
where Jesus has been executed these once
cowardly disciples are now proclaiming
with boldness that Jesus not only
claimed to be the son of God he backed
up that claim by returning from the dead
and they were willing to proclaim that
message to their deaths now
how some of the disciples actually died
gets a little cloudy in ancient history
but that's not my point my point is
their willingness to die we have seven
ancient sources six of them outside the
Bible that confirm that the disciples
live lives of deprivation and suffering
as a result of their Proclamation that
Jesus had risen why were they willing to
do that because they saw on CNN that
Jesus had risen no because they read in
new york times no because a
sunday-school teacher told them no
because they were there of all human
beings who've ever lived in history the
disciples were in a unique position they
were there they encountered personally
the resurrected Jesus they knew for a
fact is this a lie or is it the truth
and knowing it was a truth they were
willing to die for that Proclamation
that tells me something about the
veracity of their claims friends I spent
almost two years of my life
investigating the minutiae historically
around the resurrection of Jesus and it
all came down to a Sunday afternoon and
I realized you know at some point every
juror needs to reach a verdict and I
thought you know what the evidence is in
I'm not after two years I don't think
I'm gonna find some newsflash something
I missed so I said I got to reach a
verdict so I sat down with all the
evidence I had encountered over this two
years as massive volumes of material and
I'm kind of sorting through it and when
I stop and wait a second and I kind of
step back I said you know in the light
of the avalanche of evidence that points
so powerfully toward the truth of
Christianity I realize it would take
more faith to maintain my atheism than
to become a Christian
I mean that was my conclusion it was
like the scales just tipped like this
and I realized based on the historical
data I was convinced Jesus not only
claimed to be the Son of God he backed
up that claim by returning from the dead
and then you know how I felt I kind of
felt let down I did I thought it's been
two years shouldn't uh shouldn't an
angel appear about now I mean that would
be cool something an earthquake would be
great something dramatic if it was kind
of let down after two years is that in
he said it but then I read a verse John
1:12 says but as many as received him to
them he gave the right to become
children of God even to those who
believe in his name and I realize ok
believing the evidence concluding
reaching the verdict that Jesus claimed
to be the son of God backed it up by
returning from the dead that's great
that's important it's not enough it's
not enough believed plus receive I had
to receive receive what we see this free
gift of forgiveness and eternal life
that Jesus purchased for me on the cross
when he died as my substitute to pay for
all of my sin and when I would receive
this free gift of His grace then I would
become a child of God and so I got on my
knees and I poured out a confession of a
lifetime of immorality that would
absolutely curl your hair and at that
moment I received complete and total
forgiveness through Jesus Christ and I
became a child of God and I remember
remember leslie burst into tears and she
threw her arms around my neck and she
said you hard-hearted son of a Baptist
I've been telling you this for two years
hello no I'm kidding she didn't say yeah
I always wished she'd said that because
that would have made a great story there
would have been a great capper if she
had done that but that's not Leslie she
burst into tears and she threw her arms
round my neck and she said oh honey I
almost gave up on you a thousand times
she said when I was a new Christian I
met some women at church and I said I
don't have any hope for my husband he is
a hard-headed hard-hearted legal editor
the Chicago Tribune
he will never bend his knee to Jesus and
this one elderly Saint put her arm
around her shoulder and pulled her to
the side and she said Oh Leslie no one
is beyond hope and she gave reverse from
the old testament ezekiel 36:26 this
says moreover I will give you a new
heart and I will put a new spirit within
you I will remove from you your heart of
stone and give you a heart of flesh and
so what I never knew at the time this
whole two years I'm on this
investigative journey what I never knew
is every day my wife behind the scenes
was on her knees praying that verse for
me and can I tell you what happened
starting on that Sunday afternoon now
that I'd received Jesus as my forgiver
and leader now that I've become a child
of God and then over time as I was
baptized as I became part of a vibrant
church like this one as I learned to
read the Bible with fresh eyes as I
learned to worship as I learned to pray
God began to answer Leslie's prayers
because my values changed and my
morality changed and my character
changed and my priorities and my
relationships and my worldview and my
philosophy and my parenting are our
marriage I mean all these things over
time began to change for the good and
this is always where I would get stuck
because somebody would say to me well
leave tell me your story how'd you come
to faith okay and I tell the whole story
up to here and I wouldn't know what to
say
because what's what stuck me was was how
do I communicate to you you didn't know
me when I was literally drunk in the
snow in an alley you didn't know me when
I was living my former life so what
words can I use to help you understand
the difference Jesus has made in my life
you see what I'm saying how do I explain
that to you cuz you didn't know me back
then and I ask God what do I say the
only thing I can say is what happened to
my little girl Allison think about this
for a second here's a little kid five
years old by then when I came to faith
all she had known the first five years
of her life was a dad who was absent
angry kicking holes in walls coming home
drunk there was her whole life but
starting on that Sunday afternoon when I
gave my life to Jesus you know what she
did she started to watch something's
changing with my dad something's
different with my dad something is new
with my dad
there's never studied ancient history
never interviewed a scholar never
studied archaeology just five years old
but she could listen she could watch she
could observe and she did she watched
how God changed my life and it took
about four or five months and then one
Sunday morning she came up to Lesley and
what she said I want God to do for me
what he's done for daddy an age five at
age five my little girl received this
forgiveness and gift of eternal life
from Jesus became a child of God today
she's married to a Seminary graduate
she's a novelist she writes works of
fiction but they all have the message of
Jesus woven into them her and her
husband together write children's books
about God she is the mother of two of my
four precious grandchildren and today
were the best of friends and same thing
with my son my son saw the difference
that God was making in his mom and his
dad and his sister and he came to faith
at a young age too but he took an
academic route got an undergraduate
degree in biblical studies got a
master's degree in philosophy of
religion got another master's degree in
New Testament and then after many years
of research and study at Yale University
and at the University of Aberdeen in
Scotland he was awarded his PhD in
theology and so now you know and he does
he's a professor at one of the largest
Christian seminaries in America teaching
young people about Jesus Christ and five
years ago
five years ago his wife gave birth to
our first grandson and he named him
after his dead friends God rescued our
family he changed my son he changed my
daughter he changed my wife he changed
me and now next month Leslie and I will
celebrate our 46th wedding anniversary
together so that's my story that's my
story
so let me let me just end with this let
me just take my story and apply it to
you remember that equation from John
1:12 believed plus receive equals become
you might be here today because you're
like I was and a friend invited you and
you're a skeptic and you're not sure
about this stuff and what I said today
resonated with you but you still on a
journey and I want to say this to you if
you do not right now believe that Jesus
is who he claimed to be that's ok it's
ok as long as you do what I did and you
check it out do your own investigation
check it out the historical data is
there but you owe it to yourself to
investigate it the Old Testament the New
Testament both say if you sincerely seek
God guess what you're gonna find him
you're gonna find him but I'm going to
end with this some of you may believe
but you're not sure if you've ever
received
you know you come to a place like this
and and you hear people talk with such
passion right about their relationship
with God they have a personal authentic
deep relationship with God you hear them
talk this way and in the back of your
mind you're thinking why is it not like
that with me why why does God seem so
distant from me
could it be because you believe the
right stuff which is great but there's
never really been a point in time where
you have received Jesus as your forgiver
and leader receive this free gift of His
grace and thus according to John 1:12
become an authentic child of a god I'm
just asking the question you know the
Bible says these things are written to
you who believe in the name of the son
of God in orange you may know that you
have eternal life God doesn't want you
in a state of confusion he doesn't want
you wandering interstate of ambiguity
where you stand with him you can know
for a fact that you are adopted as a son
or a daughter of the Most High
you can know it how when you believe and
you receive you may say well how can I
believe I still got questions of course
we all have questions that's ok all you
need to know for sure right now is Jesus
claimed to be the son of God and he
backed it up by returning from the dead